Python: Document that W3C trace context injection does not apply to Foundry hosted/toolbox MCP tools (#5580)
microsoft/agent-framework: python/samples/02-agents/observability/README.md

### MCP trace propagation

Whenever there is an active OpenTelemetry span context, Agent Framework automatically propagates trace context to MCP servers via the `params._meta` field of `tools/call` requests. It uses the globally-configured OpenTelemetry propagator(s) (W3C Trace Context by default, producing `traceparent` and `tracestate`), so custom propagators (B3, Jaeger, etc.) are also supported. This enables distributed tracing across agent-to-MCP-server boundaries, compliant with the [MCP `_meta` specification](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-11-25/basic#_meta).

> **Scope:** automatic `_meta` injection applies to MCP sessions that the agent process itself opens — `MCPStreamableHTTPTool`, `MCPStdioTool`, and `MCPWebsocketTool`. For **hosted MCP tools** (`FoundryChatClient.get_mcp_tool(...)`) and **toolbox-fetched tools** (`FoundryChatClient.get_toolbox(...)`), the `tools/call` message is issued by the Foundry agent service runtime rather than by the agent process. As a result, the framework has no opportunity to inject trace context into those requests, and propagating `traceparent`/`tracestate` across the agent–toolbox–MCP boundary is the responsibility of the Foundry service runtime, not of Agent Framework. If end-to-end distributed tracing to the downstream MCP server is required, use `MCPStreamableHTTPTool` (or another client-opened transport) instead of a toolbox connector.

Author: This scope note is still too narrow for a provider-agnostic observability README. `OpenAIChatClient.get_mcp_tool()` says the MCP server "will be called by OpenAI's service" and is "not locally by your application" (`python/packages/openai/agent_framework_openai/_chat_client.py:1089-1097`), and `AnthropicClient.get_mcp_tool()` says the MCP server is called "by Anthropic's service" and "not locally by your application" (`python/packages/anthropic/agent_framework_anthropic/_chat_client.py:463-471`). Restricting the exception here to Foundry-hosted/toolbox tools will still mislead readers into thinking other hosted MCP tool configs receive SDK `_meta` injection.

```suggestion
**Scope:** automatic `_meta` injection applies only to MCP sessions that the agent process itself opens — for example `MCPStreamableHTTPTool`, `MCPStdioTool`, and `MCPWebsocketTool`. It does **not** apply to hosted/provider-managed MCP tool configurations such as `FoundryChatClient.get_mcp_tool(...)`, `OpenAIChatClient.get_mcp_tool(...)`, `AnthropicClient.get_mcp_tool(...)`, or toolbox-fetched tools from `FoundryChatClient.get_toolbox(...)`, because in those cases the `tools/call` message issued by the provider service runtime rather than by the agent process. As a result, the framework has no opportunity to inject trace context into those requests, and propagating `traceparent`/`tracestate` across that hosted-service boundary is the responsibility of the service runtime, not Agent Framework. If end-to-end distributed tracing to the downstream MCP server is required, use a client-opened MCP transport instead of a hosted connector.
```

Author: Fixed in `d3857354`.

> **Scope:** automatic `_meta` injection applies to MCP sessions that the agent process itself opens — `MCPStreamableHTTPTool`, `MCPStdioTool`, and `MCPWebsocketTool`. For **hosted MCP tools** (`FoundryChatClient.get_mcp_tool(...)`) and **toolbox-fetched tools** (`FoundryChatClient.get_toolbox(...)`), the `tools/call` message is issued by the Foundry agent service runtime rather than by the agent process. As a result, the framework has no opportunity to inject trace context into those requests, and propagating `traceparent`/`tracestate` across the agent–toolbox–MCP boundary is the responsibility of the Foundry service runtime, not of Agent Framework. If end-to-end distributed tracing to the downstream MCP server is required, use `MCPStreamableHTTPTool` (or another client-opened transport) instead of a toolbox connector.

Author: Fixed in `d3857354`.

> **Scope:** automatic `_meta` injection applies only to MCP sessions that the agent process itself opens — `MCPStreamableHTTPTool`, `MCPStdioTool`, and `MCPWebsocketTool` (or any other client-opened `MCPTool` subclass). It does **not** apply to hosted/provider-managed MCP tool configurations such as `FoundryChatClient.get_mcp_tool(...)`, `OpenAIChatClient.get_mcp_tool(...)`, `AnthropicClient.get_mcp_tool(...)`, or toolbox-fetched tools (for example, `toolbox = await client.get_toolbox(...)`, then passing `toolbox.tools` into `Agent(tools=...)`), because in those cases the `tools/call` message is issued by the provider service runtime rather than by the agent process. As a result, the framework has no opportunity to inject trace context into those requests, and propagating `traceparent`/`tracestate` across that hosted-service boundary is the responsibility of the service runtime, not Agent Framework. If end-to-end distributed tracing to the downstream MCP server is required, use a client-opened MCP transport instead of a hosted connector.

Author: Two issues with this scope note: (1) `GeminiChatClient.get_mcp_tool(...)` (`python/packages/gemini/agent_framework_gemini/_chat_client.py:428`) also produces a provider-managed `McpServer` tool entry handled by the Gemini service runtime and should be added to the enumerated list. (2) This fix is incomplete because the same clarification also needs to land on the learn site — otherwise users will still see conflicting guidance between this sample README and the published docs.

```suggestion
**Scope:** automatic `_meta` injection applies only to MCP sessions that the agent process itself opens — `MCPStreamableHTTPTool`, `MCPStdioTool`, and `MCPWebsocketTool` (or any other client-opened `MCPTool` subclass). It does **not** apply to hosted/provider-managed MCP tool configurations such as `FoundryChatClient.get_mcp_tool(...)`, `OpenAIChatClient.get_mcp_tool(...)`, `AnthropicClient.get_mcp_tool(...)`, `GeminiChatClient.get_mcp_tool(...)`, or toolbox-fetched tools (for example, `toolbox = await client.get_toolbox(...)`, then passing `toolbox.tools` into `Agent(tools=...)`), because in those cases the `tools/call` message is issued by the provider service runtime rather than by the agent process. As a result, the framework has no opportunity to inject trace context into those requests, and propagating `traceparent`/`tracestate` across that hosted-service boundary is the responsibility of the service runtime, not Agent Framework. If end-to-end distributed tracing to the downstream MCP server is required, use a client-opened MCP transport instead of a hosted connector.
```

Author: Fixed in `d3857354`.
